C Programming Assignment: SQL-Like Query Parser and Executor

Objective

You are required to write a C program that parses and executes a simplified SQL-like SELECT query.
The query will work on a "table," where each table is represented by a text file.

The file name corresponds to the table name.

The first line of the file contains the field (column) names, separated by commas.

The following lines contain the records (rows), also separated by commas.

Your program should:

Parse the given query.

Validate that the requested table (file) exists.

Validate that the requested fields exist in the table.

Validate and process the WHERE clause (if present).

If parsing is correct, retrieve and display the requested fields from the file.

Query Format

The query will follow this restricted format:

SELECT field1, field2, ... FROM table_name WHERE fieldX = value;


Fields can be one or more, separated by commas.

* can be used to select all fields.

table_name corresponds to a file in the current directory with extension .txt.

WHERE clause supports only simple equality (=) checks on a single field.

Example File (students.txt)
id,name,age,grade
1,Alice,20,A
2,Bob,21,B
3,Charlie,19,A

Example Queries and Expected Outputs
Input Query:
SELECT name,grade FROM students WHERE age=20;

Output:
Query Parsed Successfully!
Results:
name    grade
Alice   A

Input Query:
SELECT * FROM students WHERE grade=A;

Output:
Query Parsed Successfully!
Results:
id  name    age grade
1   Alice   20  A
3   Charlie 19  A

Input Query:
SELECT age FROM students WHERE name=Bob;

Output:
Query Parsed Successfully!
Results:
age
21

Input Query:
SELECT address FROM students WHERE grade=A;

Output:
Error: Field 'address' not found in table 'students'.

Input Query:
SELECT name FROM students WHERE height=180;

Output:
Error: Field 'height' not found in table 'students'.

Requirements

String Parsing: Use C string functions to parse the query.

File Operations: Open the file, read the first line to extract fields, and then read data rows.

Validation: Ensure fields requested in the SELECT part and WHERE clause exist in the table.

Execution:

If no WHERE clause → return all rows.

If WHERE clause → filter rows based on the condition.

Output: If parsing and validation succeed, print the requested fields and values.

Error Handling: Display appropriate error messages if query format, table, or fields are incorrect.

Assignment Deliverables

A single .c source file implementing the program.

A sample input file (e.g., students.txt).

 